Alright! In the last video, I actually
went in and loaded visits on startup. But
what I want to do in this video, I am
going to edit this and say...
We have not actually run until Spring
Data JPA Services. Basically, I'm
going to say we're going to update the
profiles. There's a couple things
that we need to do here. I'm going to go
through this. I have not run this yet
against the H2 in-memory database. This
is coming up okay. H2 is loading and at
this point I think the entities are
probably getting created. We're not
loading any data against them because
we're not using the Spring Data
repositories so what we want to do is go
in and update those to do so.
I'm going to come over to IntelliJ
and change some things here.
So, what we did here for the JPA services,
we added a profile Spring Data JPA.
We need to do the same thing. The problem
here is these services don't have a
profile, and kind of be nice to have
everything default to the map based
service per se, so let me stop Spring
Boot. We'll go ahead and hide that.
We don't need him. Let's see here. I
got the map service here.
Remember the profiles,
what we can do is come up with a
list here and we
can say default
or we can also say, we'll just do map and
keep it simple.
What happens, just as a refresher, if
we don't specify an active profile, the
air quotes the active profile will be
default. We only want this class to
be implemented if the default profile is
active or if the map profile is active.
Now if I specify any active profile,
default is not active, so that's why I'm
going to go in and implement both.
So now, I'm going to come here and we
want to modify the other ones. Doing the
evils of cut and paste. I'm just going
to come through and update the different
services .There are the service
implementations of that. So I'm updating
these Spring Beans, like so.
Again, I'm just doing Profile default, and
map. This bean will be
implemented if either one of those is
active.
And now, I'm just going to go ahead and
start Spring Boot again. You can see
right towards the top usually.
Right here, this second line says no
active profile set falling back to the
default profile of default. So right now,
our map implementation came up and that
is up and running so everything
restarted normally with all these new
annotations of the Profile, so exactly
what I hoped happen. So let's go ahead
and stop this.
Now let's come over here. There's
actually a couple different ways that we
can set the active profile.
Let's see here.
We want to come under here our pet
clinic web. We have resources application
dot properties.
You can see here at IntelliJ's
intellisense profiles active and comes
in separate list of active profiles.
What we want to do is come over here, and
remember, we have the Spring Data JPA.
I'm pretty sure that these are
case-sensitive.
I am going from memory, so i could be
wrong on that. But we are going to do springdatajpa. Just did a cut and paste on that to
make sure that we did get it right.
This is the first time I'm running it. I
don't know if we're going to get errors or
not. Let's go ahead and see what happens
because we could have missed something.
We will deal with the errors, if they
occur. It looks looks like everything
worked okay.
So everything came up all right. I'm just
double checking the logs here.
Let's come over
here to Chrome and run this.
There's our Veterinarians.
Just double check the active profiles
Spring Data JPA.
I don't remember if the database
console is running.
Make sure I try to remember. They changed this URL a
couple of times.
Nope, I did not see that come up. Look into
that, double-check.
I might be overlooking. I'm looking for
the H2 database console and I am not
seeing any chatter from
H2, which I should be.
I should have liked.
I'm going to look for the DB console
here in another video look. Will look at that at
the future. But what we can do here is
let's come into, we'll say owner,
and what we want to do here is let's
take a look at the save method.
I just want to prove that this is
actually running
for us. I'm just going to put in a
bunch of pound signs.
I'm just doing this because this will
show up in the logs quite nicely. I just
want to make sure that we are in fact
running the JPA implementation. I
always get skeptical when things run the
first time without any causing any
error, and we can see that we are in
fact running the JPA services.
So I'm going to get rid of that system
out, or actually, let me leave
that in. I'll go over to active profiles.
Comment that out and let's restart
this.
This time, we should not see any
chatter from that.
We do. We have a problem.
You can see, this time, the pound signs
are not in the log, so we'll return that.
Restart this.
You can see how the active profile is
controlling through the Spring
inversion of control of the Spring Container
is deciding which implementation. So we
have a set of was that about six
services that are being wired up.
Depending on what our active profile is,
that is telling the Spring application
of which one to actually wire in for us.
So I'm going to come back over here and
clear out this debug stuff.
And let's see here. I think everything's
good. I'm just double-checking. So I'm
going to come over here and that was
number 48.
I'm going to go ahead and commit that
into GitHub.
I was honestly expecting something to
be unhappy there. Sometimes things
work out in your favor. I'm going to go
ahead and commit and push this. So I
think we got a good example there. So now,
I think there's a really good example of
how you can see how we are using active
profiles to wire in the implementation
that we did. We kind of been
working to this point for quite a while
and I'm glad it kind of came together.
Part of it is an experience in
setting things up because we really did
model the map service after the JPA
service. I kind of knew if some gotchas
and I kind of guide in things along the
way. But I am honestly a little surprised
that we did not run into one hiccup at
all. There's probably something lurking
out there because we really don't have
good test coverage. But testing is coming
up in a future video.